Preparation to make ahead
You can make these on the previous day if you feel the butter chicken recipe is elaborate.
1. Marinate the chicken and refrigerate.
2. Make the Punjabi garam masala powder or decide on a good garam masala.
3. Puree the tomatoes in a blender and filter through a colander to remove the skin and seeds and refrigerate.
4. Make a smooth paste of the almonds (or cashew nuts or magaz seeds). If you do not own a powerful blender then soak the almonds or cashews for 1 to 2 hours. Blend them to a really very smooth paste.
5. The color of your gravy may differ based on your red chili powder. You may want to arrange for a good chili powder that is less hot like kashmiri chilli powder.

How to make Indian butter chicken recipe
1. Marinating chicken helps to make it soft and tasty. Wash chicken and pat it dry. Make sure there is no excess water in the chicken. Marinate with lemon juice, chili powder and salt. Set this aside for 15 to 20 minutes.
first marination to tenderize chicken for making butter chicken recipe
2. Go ahead with the second marination. Marinate with yogurt, ginger garlic paste, crushed kasuri methi, oil, turmeric and garam masala. Marinate and refrigerate for at least 45 minutes. 3 hours is better but overnight does wonders. The longer it is marinated, the meat turns softer and just melts in the mouth.
second marination using yogurt spice powders for butter chicken
3. Grill the chicken in the oven or stove top. For grilling in oven, preheat the oven to 240 C for at least 15 minutes. Skew the chicken on to soaked wooden skewers or place on a greased tray and grill for 20 to 30 minutes. In between you will have to flip to the undone side.
4. If grilling chicken on tawa. Add one tsp. butter and fry on high. Moisture begins to ooze out, this is very common. Keep stirring don’t burn and do not over cook.
grilling or tawa frying chicken
5. Cook till the chicken is just done and all the moisture evaporates. Set this aside. You can even saute till the chunks turn lightly golden.
tawa fried golden grilled meat
6. Heat butter in a pan, add cinnamon, cloves and cardamom. Saute for a min or two. Add ginger garlic paste, green chilies and fry for 2 to 3 minutes till the raw smell goes off. (I did not use green chilies since my kids still cannot tolerate the heat.)
frying dry masala or spices for seasoning
7. Pour the tomato puree, add red chili powder and salt.
adding tomato puree chili powder masala
8. Mix and cook till the tomato puree becomes thick and begins to leave the sides.
thick sauted tomato spiced mixture for murgh makhani
9. Pour 1 cup water and add methi powder, almond paste (it’s supposed to be almond paste, but became almond milk while blending).Let it come to a boil and then simmer for 3 to 5 minutes. You can add kasuri methi and garam masala now, but I prefer to add at a later step for the best aroma.
addition of almond paste to pan
10. Add chicken and simmer for about 5 to 7 minutes till it becomes tender. (The cook time may vary depending on how tender your meat is). I check with a fork, the piece just breaks upon piercing. Check the salt and spice. Adjust as needed.
addition of grilled chicken to gravy
11. Add garam masala and crushed kasuri methi . You can adjust the consistency by adding more water if the gravy is very thick. Mix well and simmer for about 2 to 3 minutes. Then add chilled cream. Switch off the stove. or take a small portion of hot gravy and add it to the cream first and then pour the cream to the curry. This prevents cream from curdling. Take care not to cook longer after adding cream.


